.TH SYMPA 8 "--SYMPA_VERSION--" "April 2001" "Sympa --SYMPA_VERSION--" 
.SH NAME
Sympa \- a modern mailinglists manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sympa.pl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBSympa\fR is scalable and highly customizable mailing list manager. 
It can cope with big lists (200,000 subscribers) and comes with 
a complete (user and admin) Web interface. It is 
internationalized, and supports the us, fr, de, es, it, fi, and 
chinese locales. A scripting language allows you to extend the 
behavior of commands. \fBSympa\fR can be linked to an LDAP directory 
or an RDBMS to create dynamic mailing lists. \fBSympa\fR provides S/MIME 
and HTTPS based authentication and encryption. 
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
Sets \fBSympa\fR in debug mode and keeps it attached to the terminal. 
Debugging information is output to STDERR, along with standard 
log information. Each function call is traced. Usefull while 
reporting a bug. 
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR=\fIfile\fR
Forces \fBSympa\fR to use an alternative configuration file. 
Default behavior is to use the configuration file as defined in the 
Makefile. 
.TP
\fB\-\-import\fR=\fIlist\fR
Import subscribers in the list. Data are read from STDIN.
The imported data should contain one entry per line : the first field
is an email address, the second (optional) field is the free form name.
Fields are spaces-separated.
Sample :
.nf
## Data to be imported
## email	gecos
john.steward@some.company.com		John - accountant
mary.blacksmith@another.company.com	Mary - secretary
.fi 
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-keepcopy\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
This option tells \fBSympa\fR to keep a copy of every incoming message, 
instead of deleting them. `directory' is the directory to 
store messages. 
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-lang\fR=\fIcatalogue\fR
Set this option to use a language catalog for \fBSympa\fR. The corresponding 
catalog file `catalogue'.cat must be located in ~sympa/nls directory. 
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mail\fR
\fBSympa\fR will log calls to sendmail, including recipients. Useful 
for keeping track of each mail sent (log files may grow faster though). 
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\fR=\fIlistname\fR | ALL
Dumps subscribers of for `listname' list or all lists. Subscribers are 
dumped in \fIsubscribers.db.dump\fR.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print this help
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number
.PP
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I \fI--CONFDIR--/sympa.conf\fR main configuration file
.TP
.I \fI--PIDDIR--/sympa.pid\fR   this file contains the process ID of \fIsympa.pl\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
Latest version of \fBSympa\fR is available from
http://www.sympa.org
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
Serge Aumont
Comité Réseau des Universités
.TP
Olivier Salaün
Comité Réseau des Universités
.TP
Contact authors at <sympa-authors@cru.fr>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <sympa-dev@cru.fr>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 Comité Réseau des Universités

Copyright \(co 1997,1998,1999 Institut Pasteur & Christophe Wolfhugel

You may distribute this software under the terms of the GNU General
Public License Version 2 ( http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SP
The full documentation is avalable in HTML and PostScript formats
.in +1i
.B http://listes.cru.fr/sympa/direct/doc.html
.in -1i
.SP
The mailing lists (with web archives)
.in +1i
.B http://listes.cru.fr/wws/lists/informatique/sympa
.in -1i

.SP
.BR sympa.conf ( 5 ), 
.BR wwsympa.conf ( 5 ), 
.BR archived.pl ( 8 ),
.BR bounced.pl ( 8 )

