=head1 NAME

sympa (or sympa.pl) - A Modern Mailing List Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

S<B<sympa> [ B<-d, --debug> ] [ B<-f, --file>=I<another.sympa.conf> ]>
      S<[ B<-k, --keepcopy>=I<directory> ]>
      S<[ B<-l, --lang>=I<catalog> ]> [ B<-m, --mail> ]
      S<[ B<-h, --help> ]> [ B<-v, --version> ]
      S<>
      S<[ B<--import>=I<listname> ]> [ B<--close_list>=I<list[@robot]>][ B<--purge_list>=I<list[@robot]>]
      S<[ B<--lowercase> ] [ B<--make_alias_file> ]>
      S<[ B<--dump>=I<listname> | ALL]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Sympa> is scalable and highly customizable mailing list manager. 
It can cope with big lists (200,000 subscribers) and comes with 
a complete (user and admin) Web interface. It is 
internationalized, and supports the us, fr, de, es, it, fi, and 
chinese locales. A scripting language allows you to extend the 
behavior of commands. B<Sympa> can be linked to an LDAP directory 
or an RDBMS to create dynamic mailing lists. B<Sympa> provides S/MIME 
and HTTPS based authentication and encryption.
Sympa is a modern mailing-list manager. It supports a lot of useful
features.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 5

=item B<-d, --debug>

Enable debug mode.

=item B<-f, --file=>F<another.sympa.conf>

Force Sympa to use an alternative configuration file instead
of F</etc/sympa/sympa.conf>.

=item B<-k, --keepcopy=>F<directory>

This option tells Sympa to keep a copy of every incoming message, 
instead of deleting them. `directory' is the directory to 
store messages.

=item B<-l, --lang=>I<catalog>

Set this option to use a language catalog for Sympa. The corresponding
catalog file `catalogue'.cat must be located in F</usr/lib/sympa/nls>
directory.

=item B<-m, --mail>

Sympa will log calls to sendmail, including recipients. This option is
useful for keeping track of each mail sent (log files may grow faster
though).

=item B<-h, --help>

Print this help message.

=item B<-v, --version>

Print the version number.



With the following options F<sympa.pl> will run in batch mode :

=item B<--import=>I<list>

Import subscribers in the list. Data are read from STDIN.
The imported data should contain one entry per line : the first field
is an email address, the second (optional) field is the free form name.
Fields are spaces-separated.

Sample :

    ## Data to be imported
    ## email        gecos
    john.steward@some.company.com           John - accountant
    mary.blacksmith@another.company.com     Mary - secretary

=item B<--close_list>=I<list[@robot]>

Close the list (changing its status to closed), remove aliases and remove
subscribers from DB (a dump is created in the list directory to allow restoring
the list)

=item B<--purge_list>=I<list[@robot]>

Remove the list (remove archive, configuration files, users and owners in admin table. Restore is not possible after this operation.

=item B<--lowercase>

Lowercases email addresses in database.

=item B<--make_alias_file>

Create an aliases file in /tmp/ with all list aliases. It uses the list_aliases.tpl
template.

=item B<--dump=>I<listname> | ALL

Dumps subscribers of for `listname' list or all lists. Subscribers are 
dumped in subscribers.db.dump.


=back

=head1 FILES

F</etc/sympa/sympa.conf> main configuration file.

F</var/spool/sympa/sympa.pid> this file contains the process ID
of F<sympa.pl>.

=head1 AVAILABILITY

Latest version of B<Sympa> is available from http://www.sympa.org.

=head1 MORE DOCUMENTATION

The full documentation in HTML and PostScript formats can be
found in F</usr/share/doc/sympa/html/>. 

The mailing lists (with web archives) can be accessed at
http://listes.cru.fr/wws/lists/informatique/sympa.

=head1 AUTHORS

Serge Aumont
 	Comité Réseau des Universités

Olivier Salaün
 	Comité Réseau des Universités

Contact authors at <sympa-authors@cru.fr>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright E<169> 1997,1998,1999,2000,2001 Comité Réseau des Universités

Copyright E<169> 1997,1998,1999 Institut Pasteur & Christophe Wolfhugel

You may distribute this software under the terms of the GNU General
Public License Version 2 (L<http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html>)

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to <sympa-dev@cru.fr>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sympa.conf(5)>, L<archived(8)>, L<bounced(8)>, L<sendmail(8)>, L<alias_manager(8)>



