=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

auth.conf -
Configuration of authentication mechanisms for web interface of Sympa

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<auth.conf> configuration file defines authentication mechanisms for web
interface of Sympa.

=head2 F<auth.conf> structure

Each paragraph starts with one of the names C<user_table>, C<ldap>,
C<generic_sso>, C<cas> or C<cgi>.

The F<auth.conf> file contains directives in the following format:

  name
  keyword value
  keyword value
  ...
  
  name
  keyword value
  keyword value
  ...

Comments start with the C<#> character at the beginning of a line.

Empty lines are also considered as comments and are ignored at the beginning. 
After the first paragraph, they are considered as paragraph separators. There 
should only be one directive per line, but their order in the paragraph is of 
no importance.

Succeeding subsections describe available parameters in each paragraph.

=head2 C<user_table> paragraph

This paragraph is related to Sympa internal authentication by email and
password.  Information of users are stored in C<user_table> database table.
This is the simplest one.

=over

=item C<regexp> I<regexp>

=item C<negative_regexp>

Perl regular expressions applied on an email address provided, to select or
block this authentication mechanism for a subset of email addresses.

=back

=head2 C<ldap> paragraph

This paragraph allows one to login to Sympa using data taken from an LDAP 
directory. Login is done in two steps:

=over

=item *

User provide a user ID or an email address, with a password. These are used 
to retrieve their distinguished name (DN) in the LDAP directory.

=item *

The email attribute is extracted from the directory entry corresponding to 
the found DN.

=back

Here is how to configure the LDAP authentication:

=over

=item C<regexp>

=item C<negative_regexp>

Same as in the C<user_table> paragraph: If an email address is provided (this 
does I<not> apply to the user ID), then the regular expression will be applied 
to find out if the LDAP directory can be used to authenticate a subset of 
users.

=item C<host>

This keyword is B<mandatory>. It is the domain name used in order to bind to 
the directory and then to extract information. You must mention the port 
number after the server name. Server replication is supported by listing 
several servers separated by commas (C<,>).

Example:

  host ldap.univ-rennes1.fr:389

  host ldap0.university.com:389,ldap1.university.com:389,ldap2.university.com:389

=item C<timeout>

It corresponds to the time limit in the search operation. A C<timelimit> that 
restricts the maximum time (in seconds) allowed for a search. A value of C<0> 
(the default) means that no time limit will be requested.

=item C<suffix>

The root of the DIT (directory information tree). The DN that is the base 
object entry relative to which the search is to be performed.

Example:

  dc=university,dc=fr

=item C<bind_dn>

If anonymous bind is not allowed on the LDAP server, a DN and password can be 
used.

=item C<bind_password>

This password is used, combined with the C<bind_dn> above.

=item C<get_dn_by_uid_filter>

Defines the search filter corresponding to the C<ldap_uid>. (RFC 2254 
compliant). If you want to apply the filter on the user, use the variable 
C<[sender]>. It will work with every type of authentication (user ID, 
C<alternate_email>, ...).

Example:

  (Login = [sender])

  (|(ID = [sender])(UID = [sender]))

=item C<get_dn_by_email_filter>

Defines the search filter corresponding to the email addresses (canonic and 
alternative --- this is RFC 2254 compliant). If you want to apply the filter 
on the user, use the variable C<[sender]>. It will work with every type of 
authentication (user ID, C<alternate_email>..).

Example: a person is described by

  dn: cn=Fabrice Rafart, ou=Siege, o=MaSociete, c=FR
  objectClass: person
  cn: Fabrice Rafart
  title: Network Responsible
  o: Siege
  ou: Data processing
  telephoneNumber: 01-00-00-00-00
  facsimileTelephoneNumber: 01-00-00-00-00
  l: Paris
  country: France
  uid: frafart
  mail: Fabrice.Rafart@MaSociete.fr
  alternate_email: frafart@MaSociete.fr
  alternate: rafart@MaSociete.fr

The filters can be:

  (mail = [sender])

  (| (mail = [sender])(alternate_email = [sender]) )

  (| (mail = [sender])(alternate_email = [sender])(alternate  = [sender]) )

=item C<email_attribute>

The name of the attribute for the canonic email in your directory: for 
instance C<mail>, C<canonic_email>, C<canonic_address>, ... In the previous 
example, the canonic email is C<mail>.

=item C<alternative_email_attribute>

I<Obsoleted>.

On Sympa 6.2.38 or earlier, web interface provided a cookie named
C<sympa_altemails> which contained attribute values specified by this
parameter along with authenticated email address.
This feature was deprecated.

=item C<scope>

Default value: C<sub>

By default, the search is performed on the whole tree below the specified 
base object. This may be changed by specifying a scope:

=over

=item C<base>

Search only the base object,

=item C<one>

Search the entries immediately below the base object,

=item C<sub>

Search the whole tree below the base object. This is the default.

=back

=item C<authentication_info_url>

Defines the URL of a document describing LDAP password management. When 
hitting Sympa's "Send me a password" button, LDAP users will be redirected to 
this URL.

=back

=head3 TLS parameters

Following parameters are used to provide LDAPS (LDAP over TLS/SSL):

=over

=item C<use_ssl> (OBSOLETE)

If set to C<1>, connection to the LDAP server will use LDAPS (LDAP over 
TLS/SSL).

Obsoleted as of Sympa 6.2.15. Use C<use_tls> instead.

=item C<use_tls>

Default value: C<none>

=over

=item C<ldaps>

Use LDAPS (LDAP over TLS/SSL),

=item C<starttls>

Use StartTLS,

=item C<none>

TLS (SSL) is disabled.

=back

=item C<ssl_version>

Default value: C<tlsv1>

This defines the version of the TLS/SSL protocol to use. Possible values are 
C<sslv2>, C<sslv3>, C<tlsv1>, C<tlsv1_1> and C<tlsv1_2>.

=item C<ssl_ciphers>

Specify which subset of cipher suites are permissible for this connection, 
using the standard OpenSSL string format. The default value of Net::LDAPS for 
ciphers is C<ALL>, which permits all ciphers, even those that do not encrypt!

=item C<ssl_cert>

Path to client certificate.

Introduced on Sympa 6.2.

=item C<ssl_key>

Path to the secret key of client certificate.

Introduced on Sympa 6.2.

=item C<ca_verify>

C<none>, C<optional> or C<required>. If set to C<none>, will never verify 
server certificate. Latter two need appropriate C<ca_path> and/or C<ca_file> 
settings.

Introduced on Sympa 6.2.

=item C<ca_path>

Path to directory store of CA certificates.

Introduced on Sympa 6.2.

=item C<ca_file>

Path to file store of CA certificates.

Introduced on Sympa 6.2.

=back

=head2 C<generic_sso> paragraph

=over

=item C<regexp>

=item C<negative_regexp>

See L<C<user_table> paragraph|/user_table paragraph>.

=item C<service_name>

This is the SSO service name that will be offered to the user in the login 
banner menu.

=item C<service_id>

This service ID is used as a parameter by Sympa to refer to the SSO service 
(instead of the service name).

A corresponding URL on the local web server should be protected by the SSO 
system; this URL would look like 
C<http://yourhost.yourdomain/sympa/sso_login/inqueue> if the C<service_id> is 
"C<inqueue>".

=item C<http_header_list>

Sympa gets user attributes from environment variables coming from the web 
server. These variables are then cached in the C<user_table> database table 
for later use in authorization scenarios (in structure). You can define a 
comma-separated list of header field names.

=item C<http_header_prefix>

Only environment variables starting with the defined prefix will be kept. 
Another option is to list HTTP header fields explicitly using
C<http_header_list> parameter.

=item C<email_http_header>

This parameter defines the environment variable that will contain the 
authenticated user's email address.

=item C<http_header_value_separator>

Default: C<;>

User attributes may be multi-valued (including the user email address. This 
parameter defines the values separator character(s).

=item C<logout_url>

This optional parameter allows one to specify the SSO logout URL. If defined, 
Sympa will redirect the user to this URL after the Sympa logout has been 
performed.

=back

=head3 netID mapping parameters

The following parameters define how Sympa can check the user email address, 
either provided by the SSO or by the user themselves:

=over

=item C<internal_email_by_netid>

If set to C<1>, this parameter makes Sympa use its C<netidmap> table to 
associate net IDs to user email addresses.

=item C<netid_http_header>

This parameter defines the environment variable that will contain the user's 
identifier. This net ID will then be associated with an email address provided 
by the user.

=item C<force_email_verify>

If set to C<1>, this parameter makes Sympa check the user's email address. If 
the email address was not provided by the authentication module, then the 
user is requested to provide a valid email address.

=back

=head3 LDAP parameters for generic SSO

The following parameters define how Sympa can retrieve the user email 
address; B<these are useful only in case the C<email_http_header> entry was 
not defined>:

=over

=item C<ldap_host>

The LDAP host Sympa will connect to fetch user email. The C<ldap_host> 
include the port number and it may be a comma separated list of redundant
hosts.

=item C<ldap_bind_dn>

The DN used to bind to this server. Anonymous bind is used if this parameter 
is not defined.

=item C<ldap_bind_password>

The password used unless anonymous bind is used.

=item C<ldap_suffix>

The LDAP suffix used when searching user email.

=item C<ldap_scope>

The scope used when searching user email. Possible values are C<sub>, C<base> 
and C<one>.

=item C<ldap_get_email_by_uid_filter>

The filter used to perform the email search. It can refer to any environment 
variables inherited from the SSO module, as shown below.

Example:

  ldap_get_email_by_uid_filter (mail=[SSL_CLIENT_S_DN_Email])

=item C<ldap_email_attribute>

The attribute name to be used as user canonical email. In the current version 
of Sympa, only the first value returned by the LDAP server is used.

=item C<ldap_timeout>

The time out for the search.

=back

=head3 TLS parameters

To support LDAPS (LDAP over SSL/TLS), corresponding parameters in C<ldap> 
paragraph may also be used for C<generic_sso>.

=head2 C<cas> paragraph

Note that Sympa will act as a CAS client to validate CAS tickets. During this 
exchange, Sympa will check the CAS server X.509 certificate. Therefore you 
should ensure that the certificate authority of the CAS server is known by
Sympa ; this should be configured through the L<cafile|sympa_config(5)/cafile>
or L<C<capath>|sympa_config(5)/capath> F<sympa.conf> configuration parameter.

=over

=item C<regexp>

=item C<negative_regexp>

See L<C<user_table> paragraph|/user_table paragraph>.

=item C<auth_service_name>

The authentication service name. Note that it is used as an identifier in the 
code; it should therefore be made of alphanumeric characters only, with no 
space.

=item C<auth_service_friendly_name>

If defined, this string is proposed on the web login banner.

=item C<host> (OBSOLETE)

This parameter has been replaced by C<base_url> parameter.

=item C<base_url>

The base URL of the CAS server.

=item C<non_blocking_redirection>

C<on> or C<off>. Default value: C<on>

This parameter only concerns the first access to Sympa services by a user, it 
activates or not the non blocking redirection to the related CAS server to 
check automatically if the user as been previously authenticated with this 
CAS server. The redirection to CAS is used with the CGI parameter 
C<gateway=1> that specifies to CAS server to always redirect the user to the 
original URL, but just check if the user is logged. If active, the SSO 
service is effective and transparent, but in case the CAS server is out of 
order, the access to Sympa services is impossible.

=item C<login_uri> (OBSOLETE)

This parameter has been replaced by the C<login_path> parameter.

=item C<login_path> (OPTIONAL)

The login service path.

=item C<check_uri> (OBSOLETE)

This parameter has been replaced by the C<service_validate_path> parameter.

=item C<service_validate_path> (OPTIONAL)

The ticket validation service path.

=item C<logout_uri> (OBSOLETE)

This parameter has been replaced by the C<logout_path> parameter.

=item C<logout_path> (OPTIONAL)

The logout service path.

=item C<proxy_path> (OPTIONAL)

The proxy service path, only used by the Sympa SOAP server.

=item C<proxy_validate_path> (OPTIONAL)

The proxy validate service path, only used by the Sympa SOAP server.

=back

=head3 LDAP parameters for CAS

=over

=item C<ldap_host>

The LDAP host Sympa will connect to fetch user email when user uid is return 
by CAS service. The C<ldap_host> includes the port number and it may be a 
comma separated list of redundant hosts.

=item C<ldap_bind_dn>

The DN used to bind to this server. Anonymous bind is used if this parameter 
is not defined.

=item C<ldap_bind_password>

The password used unless anonymous bind is used.

=item C<ldap_suffix>

The LDAP suffix used when searching user email.

=item C<ldap_scope>

The scope used when searching user email. Possible values are C<sub>, C<base> 
and C<one>.

=item C<ldap_get_email_by_uid_filter>

The filter used to perform the email search.

=item C<ldap_email_attribute>

The attribute name to be used as user canonical email. In the current version 
of Sympa, only the first value returned by the LDAP server is used.

=item C<ldap_timeout>

The time out for the search.

=back

=head3 TLS parameters

To support LDAPS (LDAP over SSL/TLS), corresponding parameters in ldap 
paragraph may also be used for cas.

=head2 C<cgi> paragraph

This paragraph allows Sympa to receive authentication information from
the external authentication mechanism through Common Gateway Interface (CGI).
By this, Sympa may use authentication methods not supported by Sympa itself.

=over

=item C<regexp>

=item C<negative_regexp>

See L<C<user_table> paragraph|/user_table paragraph>.

=item C<remote_user_variable>

The name of the CGI environment variable that contains the e-mail address
of the authenticated user.
Note that the name of CGI variable is case-sensitive.

=item C<auth_scheme>

Optional.
If set, authentication is considered successful only if it matches the
name of authentication scheme, i.e. value of the C<AUTH_TYPE> CGI
environment variable.

The value of this parameter is case-insensitive.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<$DEFAULTDIR/auth.conf>

Distribution default.  This file should not be edited.

=item F<$SYSCONFDIR/auth.conf>

=item F<$SYSCONFDIR/E<lt>robot nameE<gt>/auth.conf>

Configuration files for site-wide default and each robot.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<wwsympa(8)>,
L<sympa_soap_server(8)>.

L<Sympa::Auth>.

=head1 HISTORY

Descriptions of parameters were originally taken from the chapter
"Authentication" in
I<Sympa, Mailing List Management Software - Reference manual>, written by
Serge Aumont, Soji Ikeda, Olivier SalaE<252>n and David Verdin.

C<cgi> paragraph was introduced on Sympa 6.2.71b.

=cut

