=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

edit_list.conf - Configuration of privileges to edit list configuration

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F<edit_list.conf> defines privileges to edit list configuration.

F<$SYSCONFDIR/edit_list.conf> is main configuration.
Several parameters defined in this file may be overridden by
F<$SYSCONFDIR/E<lt>mail domain nameE<gt>/edit_list.conf>
file for each mail domain, or by
F<E<lt>list config directoryE<gt>/edit_list.conf> file for each mailing list.

Format of F<edit_list.conf> is as following:

=over

=item *

Lines beginning with C<#> and containing only spaces are ignored.

=item *

Each line has the form "I<parameter name> I<role> I<privilege>".

=back

I<parameter name> is a list parameter name (e.g. C<max_size>),
paragraph name (C<owner>) or subparameter (C<owner.email)>).
It may be a name of template (e.g. C<welcome.tt2>) or list configuration file
(C<message.header>) except main configuration file (C<config>).

I<role> is any of C<listmaster>, C<privileged_owner>, C<owner> or C<editor>.
Multiple roles have to be separated by comma ("C<,>").

I<privilege> is C<write>, C<read> or C<hidden>.

Lines are checked in order, then matched line at the first time wins.
Default privilege may be specified with special parameter name C<default>.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<$DEFAULTDIR/edit_list.conf>

Distribution default.  This file should not be edited.

=item F<$SYSCONFDIR/edit_list.conf>

=item F<$SYSCONFDIR/E<lt>mail domain nameE<gt>/edit_list.conf>

=item F<$EXPLDIR/E<lt>list nameE<gt>/edit_list.conf> or
F<$EXPLDIR/E<lt>mail domain nameE<gt>/E<lt>list nameE<gt>/edit_list.conf>

Configuration files for site-wide default, by each domain or each list.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<wwsympa(8)>.

=head1 HISTORY

This document was initially written by IKEDA Soji <ikeda@conversion.co.jp>.

=cut

