=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

ldap_alias_manager.conf - Configuration of LDAP alias management

=head1 DESCRIPTION

F<ldap_alias_manager.conf> is used by the L<ldap_alias_manager(8)>;
it allows one to manage mail aliases in an LDAP directory.
To make sympa use the ldap_alias_manager.pl script, you should edit the
L<C<alias_manager>|sympa_config(5)/alias_manager> F<sympa.conf> parameter.

Format of F<ldap_alias_manager.conf> is as following:

=over

=item *

Lines beginning with C<#> and containing only spaces are ignored.

=item *

Each line has the form "I<parameter> I<value>".
I<value> may contain spaces but may not contain newlines.

=back

=head2 Parameters

=over

=item ldap_host <host>

I<Mandatory>. LDAP server host.

Example:
  ldap_host ldap.example.com

=item ldap_bind_dn <distinguished name>

I<Mandatory>. LDAP bind DN.

Example:
  ldap_bind_dn cn=sympa,ou=services,dc=example,dc=com

=item ldap_bind_pwd <secret>

I<Mandatory>. LDAP bind password.

Example:
  ldap_bind_pwd secret

=item ldap_base_dn <distinguished name>

I<Mandatory>. LDAP base DN.

Example:
  ldap_base_dn ou=mail,dc=example,dc=com

=item ldap_mail_attribute <attribute name>

I<Mandatory>. LDAP mail attribute.

Example:
  ldap_mail_attribute mail

=item ldap_ssl <0/1>

I<Mandatory>. Use TLS (SSL) for connection to LDAP server.

Example:
  ldap_ssl 0

=item ldap_ssl_version <sslv2 /sslv3 / tlsv1 / tlsv1_1 / tlsv1_2>

I<Mandatory> if C<ldap_ssl> is C<1>. Protocol version of TLS.

Example:
  ldap_ssl_version tlsv1

=item ldap_cachain <file path>

LDAP CA chain file

Example:
  ldap_cachain /etc/ldap/cert/cachain.pem

=item queue_transport <name>

I<Mandatory>. Postfix transport parameter for queue

Example:
  queue_transport sympa

=item bouncequeue_transport <name>

I<Mandatory>. Postfix transport parameter for bouncequeue

Example:
  bouncequeue_transport   sympabounce

=back

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F<$SYSCONFDIR/ldap_alias_manager.conf>

Configuration file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ldap_alias_manager(8)>.

=cut
