=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

sympa_toc - Documentation on Sympa - Table of Contents

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Sympa> is scalable and highly customizable mailing list manager.
It can cope with big lists (200,000 subscribers) and comes with
a complete (user and admin) Web interface. It is
internationalized, and supports the us, fr, de, es, it, fi, and
chinese locales. A scripting language allows you to extend the
behavior of commands. B<Sympa> can be linked to an LDAP directory
or an RDBMS to create dynamic mailing lists. B<Sympa> provides S/MIME
and HTTPS based authentication and encryption.
Sympa is a modern mailing-list manager. It supports a lot of useful
features.

Below is the list of documentation of Sympa.

=head2 Reference manual

=over

=item I<Sympa Administration Manual>

L<https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/>.

=back

=head2 Daemons

=over

=item L<archived(8)>

Mailing List Archiving Daemon for Sympa

=item L<bounced(8)>

Mailing List Bounce Processing Daemon for Sympa

=item L<bulk(8)>

Daemon for submitting messages to SMTP engine

=item L<sympa_automatic(8)>

Automatic list creation daemon

=item L<sympa_msg(8)>

Daemon to handle incoming messages

=item L<task_manager(8)>

Daemon to process periodical Sympa tasks

=back

=head2 Web interface

=over

=item L<sympa_soap_server(8)>

Sympa SOAP server

=item L<wwsympa(8)>

WWSympa, Sympa's web interface

=back

=head2 Shell Interface

=head3 Administration tools

=over

=item L<sympa(1)>

Command line utility to manage Sympa

=item L<sympa_newaliases(1)>

Alias database maintenance

=item L<sympa_wizard(1)>

Help Performing Sympa Initial Setup

=back

=head3 Maintenance tools

=over

=item L<arc2webarc(1)>

TBD.

=item L<init_comment(1)>

TBD.

=item L<mod2html(1)>

Generates HTML view of messages to be moderated

=item L<p12topem(1)>

TBD.

=item L<sympa_soap_client(1)>

TBD.

=item L<sympa_test_ldap(1)>

Testing LDAP connection for Sympa

=item L<testlogs(1)>

TBD.

=item L<tpl2tt2(1)>

TBD.

=item L<upgrade_bulk_spool(1)>

Migrating messages in bulk tables

=item L<upgrade_send_spool(1)>

Upgrade messages in incoming spool

=item L<upgrade_shared_repository(1)>

Encode file names in shared repositories.

=item L<upgrade_sympa_password(1)>

Upgrading password in database

=back

=head2 Auxiliary Programs

=over

=item L<alias_manager(8)>

Manage Sympa aliases (Obsoleted)

=item L<ldap_alias_manager(8)>

TBD.

=item L<mysql_alias_manager(8)>

TBD.

=item L<queue(8)>, L<bouncequeue(8)>, L<familyqueue(8)>

TBD.

=item L<sympa_newaliases-wrapper(8)>, L<sympa_soap_server-wrapper(8)>,
L<wwsympa-wrapper(8)>

TBD.

=back

=head2 Configuration files

=over

=item L<auth.conf(5)>

Configuration of authentication mechanisms for web interface of Sympa

=item L<charset.conf(5)>

Configuration file for legacy character set support by Sympa

=item L<crawlers_detection.conf(5)>

User agents to be excluded from session management

=item L<edit_list.conf(5)>

Configuration of privileges to edit list configuration

=item L<ldap_alias_manager.conf(5)>

Configuration of LDAP alias management

=item L<nrcpt_by_domain.conf(5)>

Grouping factor for SMTP sessions by recipient domains

=item L<sympa_config(5)>

Configuration files for Sympa mailing list manager

=item L<sympa_scenario(5)>

Authorization scenario

=item L<topics.conf(5)>

Configuration of list topics

=back

=head2 Internals

=over

=item L<Sympa::Internals(3)>

List of Sympa internal modules

=item L<sympa_database(5)>

Structure of Sympa core database

=back

=head1 AVAILABILITY

Latest version of B<Sympa> is available from
L<https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/releases>.

=head1 MORE DOCUMENTATION

The full documentation in HTML format can be found in
L<https://sympa-community.github.io/manual/>.

The mailing lists (with web archives) can be accessed at
L<https://sympa-community.github.io/community/lists.html>.

=head1 BUGS

Report bugs to Sympa bug tracker.
See L<https://github.com/sympa-community/sympa/issues>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=cut
